1. How would you explain docker's benefits to a colleague that has never heard of it? Include at least 2 benefits
Docker is containerization platform that allows you to package your application and all its dependencies
which is needed to make an app run, so in this way.it can be portable and  run and works correctly
 on any environment and any system.
 another benefits of Docker, is that it makes your application isolated from other apps.
 regardless of where  the app is deployed, everything remains consistent and it helps you during the
  various stages of development,you can be sure that an image of your application is independent of docker
 images and container of other apps.


2. A colleague would like to build an application that consists of multiple services:

shopping-front (frontend for the shopping service)
shopping-back (backend for the shopping service)
shopping-db (database for the shopping service)

They are wondering if docker-compose would be useful in their deployment.
What is your opinion? Do you think they should use docker-compose for deployment,
or is it better to use the docker pull/run commands? Please explain reasoning behind decision.
It think it would be better and easier to use Docker compose file.
docker compose file is a runtime configuration file that allows us to run different services and having multiple
containers that can interact with eah other.
if we use docker pull/run commands we need to do the the commands for each services and it's not easy for
apps that has multiple services but docker compose file do build the image and run the container with one
command so it saves time. docker compose file is an easy way to manage an app with multiple containers.
it allows us to give the port, define the volume and everything we need in the file.It is creating and running
by one command.

3. Give a specific example/use-case of why you would add a docker volume to a container. What are volumes used for?
by default all the data inside the containers would be lost if we stopped the container so it's so important that
 we can save and keep our data ,so docker volume is the best way to save data.
Docker volume is the directory and files in host file system outside of the container, it's used to persist
data and also share the data between containers.
For example, a university or school has an application. they wanted students to upload some documents in their
profile. in this case , if we don't use docker volume. if our containers just destroyed or stopped
we would lose all the student's documents and it's not acceptable for students/users that each time they
upload their documents again but when we add Docker volume the documents  will be saved and safe
in the local machine we use in school.

4. From the following list, add either RUNTIME or BUILDTIME for the following elements:
(are they executed/used at runtime or build time?)

- docker run-------- run time
- docker build ----- build time
- docker-compose up ----- run time and build time(both)
- Dockerfile------- build time
- docker logs -f <container_id>------ run time
- publishing ports--------- run time
- pip install -r requirements.txt------build time
- CMD flask run --host=0.0.0.0--------run time

5. What is the difference between a host port and a container port? What is their relationship to each other?

Host port is the port on the host machine to bind to,
Container port is the port in the container,one which your containerized app should listen on.
by default when you run a container it does not publish any of its ports to the outside world so it is not accessible
to out side.To make docker container available to outside of Docker, we have to map a container's port
to the host port.you can choose a port on host machine and map it with the container port.
using this command: docker run -d -p host's port: container's port  image_name
 in this way the docker container service would be available to the outside world.
